---
layout: post
title:  Tracking Results to Outcomes
comment: false
date:   2019-08-14
description: 
imgUrl: https://lh3.google.com/u/1/d/1gu6TsHkfJ-Ifk-tiZqyznB-cU-ijxmwE=w2560-h1248-iv1
img: 
tags: [Blog, My Thoughts, Work]
author:
---

## SMART Goals

A quick search on the internet would reveal what the acronym SMART stands for.

* Specific
* Measurable
* Attainable
* Relevant
* Time-bound

## Activities, Results, and Outcomes

Is there a differentiation between results and outcomes? I am not exactly sure, however, there seems to be a slight difference between them. The way I have come to understand when being tasked to start tracking some of the activities I am doing by my manager, I realized the slight difference in things I track and the things he recommended me tracking.

Results seems to be a subset of the outcome, specifically the subset that is within my control.

## Start with Outcomes

To plan for or manage change, it needs to work backwards from the outcomes that we hope to deliver, yet trusting God that He has his plans ready on the outcomes already. However, depending on God does not excuse the lack of due diligence on the parts that I need to put in effort. For example, if my outcome is to sail across a strait with a sailboat, preparing for the trip with ample supply, honing my skills, strengthening my physique, setting up the sail, planning for the day and route with the highest probabiilty of succeeding should NOT be ignored; nor is doing all the preparation diminishing the dependence and trust on the Lord. If the wind diverted me to a longer detour, and I've done all I can to course correct with the best to my ability and knowledge, detracting me from achieving the outcome, may it be God's will. However, along the way I may still track the results, such as "ample supplies - Check", "course correcting every 5 miles - check", "checking and securing the ropes - check", that "can" lead to the desired outcome, I have done the best to my abilities.

## Measuring the controllables that **Can** lead to Outcomes

Thus, I suppose the differences between activities and results are that results are targeted activities with proven track records to lead to outcomes. Activities are ideally all things withint a person's control because it is generated by the individual. However, there can be so many other activities that does not make sense to track, it may make sense in a data analytics perspectives, but that is a whole different thing, which is why we have IoT and machine learning to do that job for us; even then, the goal of these analytics is to find the specific metrics that correlates to the outcome/impact, so that we may use them as **results to drive**.

## Logical Presentation and Documentation

Using frameworks instead of words to communicate is an effective and even crucial to ensure there is a common ground which everyone can stand on. For example, using the framework of culture vs perforamcne to measure a team member condneses the various parameters and comments into two axis for consistent comparisons acorss different team members and also longitudinal comparisons. In the same way, change managment has a frameowrk of outlineing and measuring against the categories of challenges, outcomes, results, timeline/resource, impact/value, and next steps (there may be some that I missed out and would not remember until checking my notes.).

